We're inside of our order created listener.
So any time this thing gets called, presumably we need to find the associated ticket and somehow lock
it down.
So in this video we're going to figure out, well, how are we going to somehow lock down a ticket?
And this might seem like a really obvious problem with some obvious solution.
You might say, all right, for all the different tickets inside of our ticket service, let's add on
some kind of locked property or something similar to that.
We'll make that a boolean.
And if locked is set to true, that means the ticket is locked and we should not allow anyone to make
any changes to it.
And then whenever we see the order canceled event, we can flip locked back over to false, which means
now people can edit this ticket once again.
This seems like a pretty obvious straightforward solution.
That a doubt.
But I'm going to suggest maybe if we start to think forward a little bit about some other capabilities
that we're going to maybe eventually want to have inside of our application, we will realize that just
having a simple Boolean, maybe not the best thing in the world.
So I want you to imagine the following scenario.
If we made use of some simple boolean to track whether or not a ticket is locked.
Let's imagine that some user who actually owns this ticket, so this is the person who is trying to
sell this ticket, wants to figure out what the status of their ticket is.
So they might make some kind of request to our ticket service asking, Is someone buying my ticket?
Is this thing getting sold?
What is the state of the ticket?
If we were only recording this locked flag right here as true or false, then we can really only say
something like this as a response.
We can probably say, yes, the ticket's locked, which means it's being purchased, but we have no
idea who is purchasing it.
No clue what so whatsoever.
And that probably would not be a great response to come back to someone who is ordering the ticket.
Imagine if you were selling something and you were selling it through some website and you want to find
out what the status of your thing that you're selling is.
And the website just told you, Yeah, we think someone's buying it, but we've got no idea what's going
on with that transaction whatsoever.
Not a great response.
So rather than just recording this very simple flag right here of Lochte, true or false, we're going
to instead record the order ID that is tied to the ticket.
So this is going to be the order, just the ID of it, that is somehow reserving this ticket.
And once we have that information, getting some information about the status of the ticket, it's going
to be a lot more straightforward.
Now, someone who owns the ticket can make a request and say, it's someone buying my ticket and we'll
send back some response that says, yeah, someone is buying it.
And the order ID that represents the person who is trying to buy this thing is maybe ads.
Then this person who owns the ticket could make a follow up request over to our order service and very
easily say what is the status of order ads?
And maybe it is currently awaiting payment.
So we could send that back to the user and say, Yeah, we're just waiting for someone to pay for this
thing and then you'll get your money from the ticket being sold.
So this is a little bit more kind of forward thinking approach, even though it is a little bit greater
complexity.
Now, a little bit of specifics here.
We're going to use the presence of an order ID to decide whether or not a ticket is currently reserved
and so whether or not we should prevent edits to it.
By default, all tickets will be created with a null value for order ID.
So if there is no order ID, that means that the ticket is not reserved and we should allow edits.
But as soon as there is an order ID now that things should be locked, prevent edits.
The other thing I want to mention very quickly in passing here is technically the order ID is not strictly
necessary to look up the status of some order that is tied to a ticket.
Technically, we could just take this ticket ID right here and maybe create a new endpoint inside of
our order service to take a ticket ID and return some information about the order that is associated
with that ticket.
Because the order service does know all these different ticket IDs, that would definitely be a possibility,
but we don't actually have a route handler for that right now.
We would have to build out some separate functionality to say, Hey, give us the ticket ID, we'll
find the appropriate order associated with that thing if it actually exists, if we instead just make
use of this order ID system, keep track of the order ID inside the ticket service, then we could actually
reuse some existing code that we already have inside the order service.
We already have a route handler that is set up to return a order given an ID that's already been put
together.
And so it would be really easy to reuse that code as opposed to have to write an entirely new endpoint
to retrieve an order based upon a ticket ID alone.
Okay.
So that's it.
That's how we're going to lock down a ticket.
So what does that really mean in practice?
Well, it means that inside of on message right here, whenever we are told that an order has been created,
we're going to take out of this event right here.
And if we forget what is actually defined in it, we can always do that command click.
So the ID right here is the idea of the order that was created.
And more importantly, we've also got the information about the ticket that was created as well, specifically
the ID.
So inside of on message, we're going to take that ID.
Instead of on message, we're then going to use that to fetch some ticket out of our tickets collection.
And then on the ticket model or ticket document, we're going to store the order ID from also inside
this order created event.
So if we're going to store that order ID inside of the ticket in our ticket service, well, we're also
going to have to open up our model's ticket file and just make sure that we add in the idea of a ticket
having an order ID property.
So in total, we're going to make it quick, change the ticket model file and then write out some logic
inside the order.
Create a listener, and that's pretty much it.
So now that we've got a overview on what's going on here, let's start the implementation in the next
video.